http://pdf.th7.cn/down/files/1502/Practical%20Object-Oriented%20Design%20in%20Ruby.pdf
CHAPTER 5
Reducing Costs with Duck Typing - QUACK!!!


1) Reducing Costs with Duck Typing 85
The purpose of OOD is to reduce the cost of change.
Messages are at the design center.
As is constructing rigorous PUBLIC interfaces.
Combine these two ideas into a technique known as DUCK TYPING.
Not "typing" like at a keyboard, but determining a "TYPE"
DUCK-TYPES are PUBLIC interface that aren't tied to a specific class. They are
across-class interfaces and replace dependency on class with dependency on messages



2) Understanding Duck Typing 85
Types e.g. strings, numbers, arrays, Booleans, etc... the category of contents of
a variable(generally used to describe data). Knowledge of the variables type allows
the application to have an expectation about how those contents will behave.
In Ruby, knowing an objects type is knowing which messages that object will respond to.


2a) Overlooking the Duck 87
(see ch5a.rb & figure 5.1)
This is also an example of f4.6 in Ch.4.


2b) Compounding the Problem 87
(see ch5b.rb and figure 5.2)
This dependent-laden code will back you in a corner with no way out.
Adding a "case" statement that switches on class solves the problem of sending
the correct message to the correct object but causes an explosion of dependencies.
Sequence diagrams should ALWAYS be simpler than the code they represent.


2c) Finding the Duck 90
(see ch5c.rb)

2d) Consequences of Duck Typing 94
The concreteness of the first example makes it simple to understand but dangerous to extend.
The Duck Typed is more abstract, demanding more understanding, but it is easier to extend.
concretion vs. abstraction
Treat objects as if they are defined by their behavior rather than their class


2d.1) POLYMORPHISM 95
http://www.etymonline.com/index.php?term=polymorphous
Morph - from the Greek for form, shape
Poly - many
Darwin's finches are polymorphic: a single species with many forms.
In OOP polymorphism refers to the ability of many different objects to respond to
the same message. Senders don't have to care about the class of the receiver;
receivers supply their own specific version of behavior.
A Single Message Thus Has Many (POLY) Forms (MORPHS).
Duck typing, Inheritance and behavior sharing via Ruby Modules are ways to achieve polymorphism.
Objects ought to be well-behaved for effective polymorphism.



3) Writing Code That Relies on Ducks 95
Duck typing relies on recognizing places the application can benefit from "across-class interfaces"


3a) Recognizing Hidden Ducks 96
The following can be replaced with DUCKS:
A) CASE STATEMENTS THAT SWITCH ON CLASS
B) KIND_OF? and IS_A?
C) RESPONDS_TO?


3a.1) Case Statements That Switch on Class 96
(see ch5d.rb)
(see ch5b.rb and figure 5.2)
A case statement switching on the class names of domain objects
What is it that all these case statements want from each argument?
The answer suggests the message that needs sending and thus begins
to define the underlying duck type.


3a.2) kind_of? and is_a? 97
(see ch5e.rb)
These are synonymous class cheking methods.
This code does the same as the previous block and causes the same problems.


3a.3) responds_to? 97
(see ch5f.rb)
Depending on class names isn't a good practice, but responds_to? doesn't do quite enough.
The explicit class names are gone, but not the dependencies.


3b) Placing Trust in Your Ducks 98
The above examples of Recognizing Hidden ducks are all saying,
"I know who you are and because of that I know what you do."
and demonstrate a Lack of TRUST.


3c) Documenting Duck Types 98
This chapters example is a SIMPLE kind of Duck - several different
classes implementing the same method and easy to abstract.
"When you create duck types you must both document and test their public interfaces.
Fortunately, good tests are the best documentation, so you are already halfway
done; you need only write the tests. See Chapter 9, Designing Cost-Effective Tests"


3d) Sharing Code Between Ducks 99
Classes which implement duck types need to share some behavior in common. 
See ch.7 for writing ducks that share code.


3e) Choosing Your Ducks Wisely 99
The above considerations are only guidelines. kind_of? and responds_to? when
querying base classes can be acceptable as the base Ruby classes won't change
as much as the classes you are writing for your app. Base classes are safer dependencies.
Use your best judgement to LOWER COSTS with design.
Monkey-patxh at your own risk.



4) Conquering a Fear of Duck Typing 100
Static Categorizing vs Dynamic Categorizing
OT - Category Theory: https://youtu.be/o6L6XeNdd_k


4a) Subverting Duck Types with Static Typing 100
Statically typed languages require explicit declarations of each variable and
every method parameter.
Dynamically typed languages omit this requirement.
Duck typing relies on identifying the stable abstractions on which your code can safely depend.


4b) Static versus Dynamic Typing 101
Static Typing advantages:
A) The compiler unearths type errors at compile time.
B) Visible type information serves as documentation.
C) Compiled code is optimized to run quickly.
Static Typing Assumptions
A) Runtime type errors will occur unless the compiler performs type checks.
B) Programmers will not otherwise understand the code; they cannot infer an object’s type from its context.
C) The application will run too slowly without these optimizations.
Dynamic Typing Advantages
A) Code is interpreted and can be dynamically loaded; there is no compile/make cycle.
B) Source code does not include explicit type information.
C) Metaprogramming is easier.
Dynamic Typing Assumptions
A) Overall application development is faster without a compile/make cycle.
B) Programmers find the code easier to understand when it does not contain type declarations; they can infer an object’s type from its context.
C) Metaprogramming is a desirable language feature.


4c) Embracing Dynamic Typing 102
Duck Typing is built upon dynamic typing - EMBRACE THE DYNAMISM



5) Summary 104
    "Messages are at the center of object-oriented applications and they pass among objects
along public interfaces. Duck typing detaches these public interfaces from specific classes,
creating virtual types that are defined by what they do instead of by who they are.
    Duck typing reveals underlying abstractions that might otherwise be invisible.
Depending on these abstractions reduces risk and increases flexibility, making your
application cheaper to maintain and easier to change."



